Welcome aboard. If you'll follow me I will show you the accommodations that we've
We can already smell the Anticans. They were taken aboard first?
Only because their world was the first on this heading to Parliament.
Will our quarters be near the Anticans?
About one hundred metres apart.
Is that all right?
No. Unsatisfactory.
I believe we can accommodate your wishes. We'll rearrange the suite assignments. If you'll follow me.
And we must be upwind from the Anticans.
Of course, sir.
Neither seem like very promising Federation candidates, sir.
Even Parliament's peacemakers may find this case a little difficult.
No sir. I didn't understand that kind of hostility even when I studied Earth history.
Really? Oh, yes, well these life forms feel such passionate hatred matters of custom, God concepts, even, strangely enough, economic systems
Sir, my sensors are picking up an unusual energy object ahead.
On screen.
Confirmed, sir. My sensors read nothing solid but considerable energy in changing patterns.
Also travelling at warp speed, sir. Intriguing. I can find no match with anything in our records, sir.
Change course to make a close sensor pass. We can then increase warp speed and reach Parliament on schedule.
Aye, sir.
Simple, Geordi. Our Captain wants his junior officers to learn, learn, learn.
Not just the junior ones. Okay, you hold this relay offline while I adjust these sensor circuits.
Security to Sensor Maintenance.
Lieutenant La Forge here.
Not at all, Lieutenant. All equipment on line and functioning.
Sensors ready, sir.
Life form reading?
No life form reading, sir.
Begin the pass.
Any readings of matter there?
Negative, Captain. Energy only.
What happened?
I don't know. He got hit by some sensor feedback, maybe.
You got it, Doc?
I got it. Lieutenant Worf, can you hear what I'm saying? Let's get him up.
Okay. Come on, big guy. On your feet. Here we go. That's it.
Are you okay?
Could your Visor device have malfunctioned?
I doubt it, sir. It seemed what I was seeing was something real.
I thought that had been taken care of in advance, Tasha.
So did we, sir. Their live animals were beamed aboard. We were going to preserve the meat for them, but they say we must bring it to them alive.
Then do so. Lieutenant Yar was confused. We no longer enslave animals for food purposes.
But we have seen humans eat meat.
You've seen something as fresh and tasty as meat, but inorganically materialised out of patterns used by our transporters.
This is sickening. It's barbaric.
Yes. Normal.
Are you all right?
Yes, perfectly. Both of us. Quite normal now.
Don't you remember? You were in the sensor maintenance room.
I remember monitoring the sensor console. What am I doing here?
That's a story the Doctor will tell you.
A mystery is only a mystery as long as it remains uninvestigated, sir.
I love a mystery, Data, but this one will have to to wait until we deliver the delegates to their peace conference on Parliament. Time and tide, Lieutenant La Forge. Go to warp eight.
Warp eight, sir.
Yes.
Physical sciences class. We're studying Doctor Channing's theory on dilithium crystals.
Tell me about it.
Really? You never seemed that interested in warp theory before. Doctor Channing thinks it's possible to force dilithium into even more useful crystals. If as shown here, matter and antimatter could be aligned even more efficiently
Would that affect navigation?
This is engineering, not helm control.
Oh yes, the helm's located on the Bridge.
Mom, is something wrong?
Unless there have been some changes I don't know about.
Doctor Crusher?
You will wish to know Lieutenant Worf is much improved. Ready to return to duty.
What was the diagnosis?
A temporary mental aberration.
Doctor, when such a diagnosis concerns a bridge officer, I expect a better explanation.
Then I will first have to run some crosschecks on the library computer. Klingons are so unusual in their reactions, aren't they?
Use Science Station two, Doctor.
Why am I?
Is something wrong, Doctor?
Doctor, are you all right?
Yes. Yes. I'll do my work in my office. That's where I should be.
Do you want someone to accompany you?
Engineering to Captain Picard.
Data, this ship is less than a year out of Spacedock. What are the chances of this occurring?
It is a virtual impossibility, sir.
So what the hell is going on here?
At least, sir, all the department heads have reported the damage repaired.
That was not my question, Number One. What caused the malfunctions?
I believe it was a rampant electronic short that jumped from system to system, sir. But the only thing is, er
Yes, Mister Singh?
That shouldn't be possible. The affected systems don't generally interact with each other. And where they do, it wasn't an interlink that was malfunctioning.
Have you spoken with Chief Engineer Argyle about this problem?
With all the Engineering staff, sir. They're just as puzzled.
Well, I'm not satisfied. I want an explanation of this by the time we reach Parliament.
But, sir.
By the time we reach Parliament, Mister Singh.
These are not weapons, First Officer. They are tools. We use these to dispatch the animals we consume.
Your food supply is not on the same deck as the Selay delegation, sir.
And you have to admit that these could kill.
I admit some of my people are impulsive. and we all have reason to hate the Selay.
They appear to have the same feelings about you, sir.
The nature of politics.
Nevertheless, Chief Delegate, you're on notice that all of your weapons, no matter what their basic function, are being confiscated. Violence will not be tolerated on the Enterprise.
Of course not. And if any does occur, let me assure you it will not be we Anticans who start it.
Thank you, sir.
But we will finish it.
Picard to Engineering.
We have lost the warp engine computer tie.
State of the art vessel? Data, signal Parliament we'll be delayed. We will send a new arrival time as soon as it is determined.
Sir, subspace radio is out.
If the Enterprise were really this fragile, sir, she never would have left Spacedock. Therefore, her systems' failures are not endemic to the ship, but are the result of the actions of an unknown adversary.
We have a saboteur aboard.
I believe I said that.
Gentlemen. The question is, who? I can't believe it's one of our people.
Agreed. It must be someone from either alien delegation. Now, if the Ferengi could have bought or bribed even one of them, that's all that they'd need.
Ferengi contacts have been detected on both Selay and Antica, sir.
Can any of you suggest any other suspects?
You're sounding like a private eye, sir.
Inquiry. Private eye?
A private consulting investigator, Data, who solves crimes.
A most interesting occupation.
In the world of fact, probably not. However, in literature, criminal detection can be a fascinating exercise. The immortal Sherlock Holmes would have an interesting view of our mystery, I believe.
But I'm afraid we're going to have to find our solution without history's greatest Consulting Detective.
It bleeds warp engine commands off into dead ends. Excellent. I believe I can handle it from here, Mister Crusher.
But, sir
You are scheduled for class work now. Sorry.
Yes, sir. But I don't learn nearly this much in school.
I tend to agree, but the captain's orders on this are very clear.
I was starting to, maybe. Mister Singh sent me off to class.
Wes, you're only an acting ensign. You've got to let the commissioned officers do some of the work.
Mom, I've learned a more than they understand. For example, the Channing's dilithium crystals theory I was telling you about?
When were you telling me about that?
This morning. Don't you remember?
Honestly, I don't remember.
Picard.
Lieutenant Worf, sir. I just found Mister Singh. He's dead.
According to these readings, we could go back to warp speed now.
Those aren't the same readings as when I left.
Singh probably repaired it just before he was killed.
He couldn't have repaired, sir. The problems were inside the engine.
Who else could have corrected it, Wes? Inform the bridge of engine status.
Engineering to Bridge. We now have warp capacity, sir. All power on line.
They should. Our delays are your delays.
The peace conference will wait for us.
I must ask where you were during this vessel's Earth hours of eighteen hundred last night and zero seven hundred this morning.
Eating.
Sir, we're talking about hours here.
It was a large meal, Lieutenant Yar. And a very interesting animal.
Yes, concerning your memory blackout.
I still don't remember having one.
The same thing happened to me.
I want to try hypnosis on both of you. It may restore your memory as to what happened.
Imprecise, Lieutenant. They omitted certain truths, which in itself tells us something.
We can learn something from non-disclosure?
Indubitably, my good woman.
It's something the Captain mentioned. Sherlock Holmes. Indubitably, Data has been studying him.
Has studied, sir. Every case. As Holmes would've pointed out, during the time in question, something was afoot.
Afoot?
While both sets of delegates say they were in their quarters, our crew locator sensed them passing here and here.
But since it doesn't show where they went, we're still in the dark.
On the contrary, dear colleague. On their return, they drew medical supplies appropriate to the treatment of minor wounds and abrasions on these life forms.
Which, leaves us with only one conclusion.
Exactly. That they were too engaged in their own affairs to have disabled our ship and murdered the Engineer. Given a choice, they'd rather kill each other than any of us. It's elementary, my dear Riker. Sir.
Yes.
I want you to go back in your mind to the moment when you first recall this sensation of memory loss. Picture it exactly as it occurred.
He's lying on the hospital bed sedated. I'm walking up to him. I.
How do you feel at this moment, as you lean over him to take the specimen?
I feel someone else. There's someone else who's there. Not alone. Get out. Get out of my mind.
That's almost exactly what you said. As though there was something else inside you.
Why didn't you report it?
Because, sir, I assumed at first it was the kind of duality we Betazeds feel in all of you. Even you, sir. When you approach a decision and ask yourself which way to go, who are you talking to?
Your hypnotism revealed another form of duality?
Yes, sir. I believe something invaded them.
It seems the only possible conclusion.
Data, let's proceed without the pipe.
Yes, sir. If you wish, sir. But I ask if you'd take it as incontrovertible that it cannot be a family member or one of our crew?
Yes. Very unlikely.
Then our investigation was worthwhile, sir. We have eliminated both the delegates and the ship's regular complement.
Data, what are you suggesting?
I am referring to the great detective's credo, sir. I quote, we must fall back on the old axiom that when other contingencies fail, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
Sometimes it's the result that counts, you know. What the? Oh, no.
What is it?
Helm control just went down. She won't respond.
Bridge to Captain. You're needed here immediately.
Wes, alert Engineering from your panel, alright?
I'm trying.
Report.
Helm is down, sir. There's no apparent reason.
Captain, we've just dropped to impulse power.
I'm fine. Everything is fine now. Why the drop to impulse power, Lieutenant?
The helm is suddenly malfunctioning, sir.
Malfunctioning? You're wrong. Look again.
Sir, I was just
Mister La Forge?
Well, there's nothing wrong with it now, sir. Everything is just as it should be.
In that case, make our heading nine two five mark three seven.
Sir?
You have a problem with that heading, Lieutenant?
You want to double back on our course, sir?
Isn't that what I ordered?
Yes, sir.
Sir, I'm puzzled about your reversing our course.
That energy cloud, Commander. I believe it important we have another look at it.
But we're behind schedule for Parliament already.
I believe a very important scientific discovery awaits us on this heading.
Perhaps you'd like to share your reasoning on that, sir?
Yes, since we obtained only minimal information on our sensor pass of it.
Right, Data. We must go back to learn more. Counsellor, do you believe a ship Captain should explain every order?
Of course not, sir.
Stop! Return to your quarters.
What is that doing on our deck?
I demand to know why this starship has changed its course!
Please, return to your quarters, delegates!
Exactly what do you believe you're sensing from him?
It's just a feeling that he's, well, that he's closed part of his mind to me. I just feel that the Captain has become, perhaps dangerous.
If he's dangerous. If.
Then he'd have to be relieved of command. Which you could do, Doctor, but it's beaucoup trouble if you're wrong.
And at the moment it is all pure speculation. He has done nothing to subject the Enterprise to danger.
I'd need a medical log citing clear evidence of incapacity. You could do it without that problem.
Only if all command officers agreed it vital to do so. But he has not been showing any overt unusual behaviour.
Ultimately, I believe he will.
As second in command, it's still in your corner. I'll order medical and psychiatric exams. You'll have to back me up somehow.
I'd like you to come to Sickbay for some examinations, Captain.
Oh? I'll be glad to do when I'm free.
I'd like to conduct them now, sir.
Why? What can I do for you, Number One?
Sir, Counsellor Troi has recommended the examinations.
Same question. Why?
It is my duty to inform the Captain we believe he may be under some kind of alien influence which may constitute a danger to this ship.
I consider it equally possible that the two of you, and Counsellor Troi, are overworked, and possibly suffering hallucinations. Now this is an order. You will arrange medical and psychiatric exams of both yourself and them. Doctor, are you aware everybody is behaving strangely?
I'm concerned that you've suddenly turned the ship away from it's course.
What's happened to your mind, Doctor? The search for knowledge is always our primary mission. I'm sorry, I really am too busy for this kind of nonsense. Do I have to call Security to force you to report to the Sickbay?
No, sir.
Sorry. Wrong species.
Riker to Security Chief.
Security guard to the Engineering deck.
Right away, sir.
Here are the results from the exams you ordered, sir. You don't care to inspect them? Please, are you Jean-Luc?
He is here.
The Jean-Luc I know?
And more.
The more frightens me.
And elates us. We wish you could understand the glorious adventure ahead.
You and?
Soon we'll both be home.
Very well, Mister La Forge. Bring us to within ten thousand kilometres and hold us there.
Aye, sir.
Oh, they're already underway. I have an announcement for the entire Bridge. As many of you suspected, when our ship passed through the edge of this, it accidentally carried away a sentient being. Much like these energy patterns we're seeing here. A terrifying experience for any intelligent being. As if a great claw had reached down and scooped one of you from your home world. Drawn into the energy circuits of this vessel, it found its way to you, Worf. Frantic at being carried from its home world, and recognising you as sentient beings, it pleaded for help, but in ways you couldn't understand. Desperately going from person to person, and then discovering the computer intelligence in this ship's memory circuits. Oh, simplistic intelligence, but it furnished it enough to slow this Enterprise thing that had captured it. And it very much regrets the accidental death of Engineer Singh.
Captain, do you exist in combination with this entity?
Is it in control of you, sir?
Very soon after we combined we had learned much about each other. A passion for exploration, for the unknown. We found we had similar dreams, and it offered your Captain a way to realise them beyond human expectations.
Captain, I must speak to you privately now.
I understand. As an energy pattern, free of the limitations of matter, he might travel anywhere, at any velocity.
Captain, do you hear me?
Sir, I see no way for you to journey with an energy form.
Isn't there?
He's planning to beam himself and the entity into that cloud.
The transporter need not pattern your Captain into matter. We'll beam energy only, and we will become a combined energy pattern of our life forms. A resignation from this command and from Starfleet has been appropriately recorded.
I refuse to allow this, sir.
How does this resignation threaten the ship and its crew in any way?
Captain Picard, you are now relieved from duty. I judge you to be disabled and mentally incapacitated.
Where is he?
This is blinding me.
Captain! I'll help you if you'll let me.
Someone restrain the Captain!
So he's just floating around out there? How can we settle for that?
Give me a choice then.
Still no readings, no sign of anything.
Mister La Forge, it's time to set a course for Parliament. Warp eight.
We're really leaving him?
Commander, wait! It's the Captain. But only the Captain. He's out there alone!
The entity, has it abandoned him?
No, but the combination wasn't possible out there. He's in trouble, sir. We have to beam him back.
Beam him back as what? He's nothing but energy now.
Sir, the entity was caught in the ship's circuitry. The Captain might try to get in the same way if he's in trouble.
Bring us in closer, La Forge.
Moving in, sir, but where?
There's no way to know. Let's hope he can come part way himself. Troi, is there any way you can get a message to him?
I wish I could.
Sensors monitoring the perimeter, ship's circuitry, sir. Nothing.
Bring us right into the edge of it, La Forge.
Aye, sir.
Sir? On my sensor controls.
There's something's here. I feel it.
Just as before, going to Worf first.
Something crazy on my panel. Commander Riker.  Static?
P for Picard!
He's in the ship's circuitry. Come to the Transporter room, please. There might be a way, sir. Hurry!
I knew we had to have the Captain's physical pattern here, sir. He was the last one to beam out.
Is what you're thinking possible?
Unknown at this time, sir. I hope the Captain remembers his physical pattern is here. If he has, his energy has moved into the transporter relays by now.
I wish we had some sign that he's in here. I guess we have no choice but to risk it.
Energising, sir.
Sounds like our Captain.
But confused. This Picard pattern was formed before he went out there.
What's happening to me, Number One? I was preparing to beam out to somewhere. And I remember there was talk of an entity? But it all seems so vague.
I believe the Captain is now his separate self, sir. Much of what happened is naturally missing.
What are you talking about, Data? Is this still Sherlock Holmes?
Indubitably, sir, Indubitably.
Well, at least you got rid of the damn pipe.
Doctor Crusher asked me to steer you past Sickbay. She said you've been looking very tired.
Yes, Lieutenant.
Sorry, Commander, but Security Team Two reports they've discovered a puddle of blood outside the Selay Quarters and they can't find one of the delegates and so
Lieutenant. This couldn't have waited a moment?
It's good to see you, sir. The problem is that one of the cooks has just been asked to broil reptile for the Anticans, and it looks like the Selay delegate.
Riker, with the peace delegates and all, I think I do need a rest. Take charge, Number One.
