I don't want to obliterate the whole of Eastern Europe.
It's a deterrent.
It's a bluff. I probably wouldn't use it.
Yes, but they don't know that you probably wouldn't.
They probably do.
Yes, they probably know that you probably wouldn't. But they can't certainly know.
They probably certainly know that I probably wouldn't.
Yes, but even though they probably certainly know that you probably wouldn't, they don't certainly know that, although you probably wouldn't, there is no probability that you certainly would.
Oh yes, Prime Minister. He said his members would be delighted.
His members?
Yes, the members of his union. The National Federation...
I didn't mean him. I meant our backbencher. I meant to give a peerage to Ron Jones, not Ron Jones. The hell!!
If it is any consolation, Prime Minister, I gather he was awfully pleased.
What are we going to do about Ron Jones's peerage. Give him one too?
With respect, Prime Minister, we can't send two Lord Ron Jones to the Upper House. It will look like a job lot.
We got to give him something, I promised.
Well, what is he interested in? Does he watch television?
He hasn't even got a set.
Fine, make him Governor of the BBC.
Yes, of course.
Very well, if you walked into a nuclear missile showroom you would buy Trident - it's lovely, it's elegant, it's beautiful. It is quite simply the best. And Britain should have the best. In the world of the nuclear missile it is the Saville Row suit, the Rolls Royce Corniche, the Château Lafitte 1945. It is the nuclear missile Harrods would sell you. What more can I say?
Only that it costs £15 billion and we don't need it.
Well, you can say that about anything at Harrods.
Which one?
The one to Russia.
The Red Hot Line, Sir.
That's in Downing Street.
So in an emergency, I can get straight through to the Soviet President?
Theoretically, yes.
Theoretically?
That's what we tell journalists. In fact, we did once get through to the Kremlin, but only to a switchboard operator.
Couldn't the operator put you through?
We never found out. He didn't seem to speak much English.
Sandwich Golf Course? I didn't read that in the paper.
No, of course not: there was a cover-up. The members just found a new bunker on the 7th fairway the next day.
Yes
Are you worried about the rise in crime among teenagers?
Yes
Do you think there is a lack of discipline in our Comprehensive schools?
Yes
Do you think young people welcome some authority and leadership in their lives?
Yes
Do you think they respond to a challenge?
Yes
Would you be in favour of reintroducing National Service?
Oh...well, I suppose I might be.
Yes or no?
Yes
Of course you would, Bernard. After all you told you can't say no to that. So they don't mention the first five questions and they publish the last one.
Is that really what they do?
Well, not the reputable ones no, but there aren't many of those. So alternatively the young lady can get the opposite result.
How?
Mr. Woolley, are you worried about the danger of war?
Yes
Are you worried about the growth of armaments?
Yes
Do you think there is a danger in giving young people guns and teaching them how to kill?
Yes
Do you think it is wrong to force people to take up arms against their will?
Yes
Would you oppose the reintroduction of National Service?
Yes
There you are, you see Bernard. The perfect balanced sample.
Oh, what do you think?
Well, it's up to you, obviously. With them on you look authoritative and commanding. With them off you look honest and open. Which do you want?
Well, I want to look authoritative and honest.
It's one or the other, really.
What about starting with them off and then putting them on while I am talking?
That just looks indecisive.
Oh, I see.
What about a monocle?
To defend Britain.
No, Bernard. It is to make people believe Britain is defended.
The Russians?
Not the Russians, the British! The Russians know it is not.
You know that is a fascinating question. We often discuss it.
And what conclusion have you arrived at?
Well, I must admit to be a bit of a heretic. I think it is the British Cabinet. But I know I am in the minority.
Yes, but cigarette taxes pay for a third of the cost of the National Health Service. We are saving many more lives than we otherwise could because of those smokers who voluntary lay down their lives for their friends. Smokers are national benefactors.
Oh, what is it about?
Prime Minister, the Treasury doesn't work out what they need to spend and then think how to raise the money.
What does it do?
They pitch for as much as they think they can get away with and then think what to spend it on.
No, they are government statics..... they're facts.
You mean you've lost your key?
You mean, carry her there?
Some people. But some people must wait where other people cannot see the people who are waiting. And people who arrive before other people, must wait where they cannot see other people who arrive after them being admitted before them. And people who come in from outside must wait where they cannot see the people from inside coming in to tell you what the people from outside are going to see you about. And people who arrive when you are with people that are not suppose to know you have seen, must wait somewhere until the people you are not suppose to have seen, have seen you.
Sounds like an entire Whitehall farce going on.
You could do part of Humphrey's job!
Well, I couldn't stop him.
Why not?
He's bigger than me.
