With Trident we could obliterate the whole of Eastern Europe.
I don't want to obliterate the whole of Eastern Europe.
It's a deterrent.
It's a bluff. I probably wouldn't use it.
Yes, but they don't know that you probably wouldn't.
They probably do.
Yes, they probably know that you probably wouldn't. But they can't certainly know.
They probably certainly know that I probably wouldn't.
Nice to be able to reward one's old allies. Was Ron Jones pleased with his peerage?
Oh yes, Prime Minister. He said his members would be delighted.
His members?
Yes, the members of his union. The National Federation...
I didn't mean him. I meant our backbencher. I meant to give a peerage to Ron Jones, not Ron Jones. The hell!!
If it is any consolation, Prime Minister, I gather he was awfully pleased.
What are we going to do about Ron Jones's peerage. Give him one too?
With respect, Prime Minister, we can't send two Lord Ron Jones to the Upper House. It will look like a job lot.
We got to give him something, I promised.
Well, what is he interested in? Does he watch television?
He hasn't even got a set.
Don't you believe that Great Britain should have the best?
Yes, of course.
Very well, if you walked into a nuclear missile showroom you would buy Trident - it's lovely, it's elegant, it's beautiful. It is quite simply the best. And Britain should have the best. In the world of the nuclear missile it is the Saville Row suit, the Rolls Royce Corniche, the Château Lafitte 1945. It is the nuclear missile Harrods would sell you. What more can I say?
Only that it costs £15 billion and we don't need it.
Tell me, General, where is the Hot Line?
Which one?
The one to Russia.
The Red Hot Line, Sir.
That's in Downing Street.
So in an emergency, I can get straight through to the Soviet President?
Theoretically, yes.
Theoretically?
That's what we tell journalists. In fact, we did once get through to the Kremlin, but only to a switchboard operator.
Couldn't the operator put you through?
That is why that torpedo landed on Sandwich Golf Course.
Sandwich Golf Course? I didn't read that in the paper.
You know what happens: nice young lady comes up to you. Obviously you want to create a good impression, you don't want to look a fool, do you? So she starts asking you some questions: Mr. Woolley, are you worried about the number of young people without jobs?
Yes
Are you worried about the rise in crime among teenagers?
Yes
Do you think there is a lack of discipline in our Comprehensive schools?
Yes
Do you think young people welcome some authority and leadership in their lives?
Yes
Do you think they respond to a challenge?
Yes
Would you be in favour of reintroducing National Service?
Oh...well, I suppose I might be.
Yes or no?
Yes
Of course you would, Bernard. After all you told you can't say no to that. So they don't mention the first five questions and they publish the last one.
Is that really what they do?
Well, not the reputable ones no, but there aren't many of those. So alternatively the young lady can get the opposite result.
How?
Mr. Woolley, are you worried about the danger of war?
Yes
Are you worried about the growth of armaments?
Yes
Do you think there is a danger in giving young people guns and teaching them how to kill?
Yes
Do you think it is wrong to force people to take up arms against their will?
Yes
Would you oppose the reintroduction of National Service?
Yes
Will you be wearing those glasses?
Oh, what do you think?
Well, it's up to you, obviously. With them on you look authoritative and commanding. With them off you look honest and open. Which do you want?
Well, I want to look authoritative and honest.
It's one or the other, really.
What about starting with them off and then putting them on while I am talking?
That just looks indecisive.
Oh, I see.
Bernard, what is the purpose of our defence policy?
To defend Britain.
No, Bernard. It is to make people believe Britain is defended.
The Russians?
Humphrey, who is it who has the last word about the government of Britain? The British Cabinet or the American President?
You know that is a fascinating question. We often discuss it.
And what conclusion have you arrived at?
Humphrey, we are talking about 100,000 deaths a year.
Taxation isn't about what you need.
Oh, what is it about?
Prime Minister, the Treasury doesn't work out what they need to spend and then think how to raise the money.
What does it do?
These figures are just guesses.
Prime Minister, I must protest in the strongest possible terms my profound opposition to a newly instituted practice which imposes severe and intolerable restrictions upon the ingress and egress of senior members of the hierarchy and which will, in all probability, should the current deplorable innovation be perpetuated, precipitate a constriction of the channels of communication, and culminate in a condition of organisational atrophy and administrative paralysis which will render effectively impossible the coherent and co-ordinated discharge of the functions of government within Her Majesty's United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Bernard, I want you to put Dorothy back into her old office.
People can wait in the lobby or in the state room.
Some people. But some people must wait where other people cannot see the people who are waiting. And people who arrive before other people, must wait where they cannot see other people who arrive after them being admitted before them. And people who come in from outside must wait where they cannot see the people from inside coming in to tell you what the people from outside are going to see you about. And people who arrive when you are with people that are not suppose to know you have seen, must wait somewhere until the people you are not suppose to have seen, have seen you.
Ah, when I say not overstretched, I was of course talking in a sense of total cumulative loading taken globally, rather than in respect of certain individual and essentially anomalous responsibilities that, logically speaking, are not consonant or harmonious with the broad spectrum of intermeshing and inseparable function, and could indeed be said to place an excessive and supererogative burden on the office, where considered in relation to the comparatively exiguous advantages of their overall centralisation.
Why did you allow Sir Humphrey to come in here when I explicitly told you not to?
Well, I couldn't stop him.
Why not?
