​
Which mammal has the longest gestation period?
Elephants

The Great Red Spot is a gigantic storm located on which planet in our solar system?
Jupiter

In which country would you find the Panama Canal?
Panama

A tandoor is a type of what?
Oven

Who developed and patented the electrical telegraph in the United States in 1837?
Samuel Morse

What is the name of the Disney cartoon character that is the girlfriend to Donald Duck?
Daisy Duck

A panda's daily diet consists almost entirely of what plant?
Bamboo

What is the common term for bovine spongiform encephalopathy, a disease that causes degeneration of the brain and spinal cord in cattle?
Mad cow disease

In the game Scrabble, what is the point value of the letter K?
Five

Sushi is a type of cuisine that originated in what country?
Japan

Which American writer wrote the narrative poem "The Raven"?
Edgar Allan Poe

What is the term for the natural boundary in North America separating waters that flow into the Atlantic Ocean from those that flow into the Pacific Ocean?
Continental Divide

What late American singer was the mayor of Palm Springs California from 1988 to 1992?
Sonny Bono

When talking about computer memory, what does the acronym ROM stand for?
Read-only memory

Who was the vice president that served under President Barack Obama?
Joe Biden

Celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay opened his first restaurant in what city?
London, England

What is the farthest human-made object from planet Earth?
Voyager 1

The Mexican city of Tijuana borders what U.S city?
San Diego

Who played the female lead in the dystopian political thriller "V for Vendetta"?
Natalie Portman

What city in Australia has the highest population?
Sydney

When referring to a computer monitor, what does the acronym LCD stand for?
Liquid Crystal Display

Marie Antoinette was born an Archduchess of what country?
Austria

Who was the original singer for the American punk rock band The Misfits?
Glenn Danzig

What dish, made from crushed durum wheat, is a staple of western North Africa?
Couscous

According to Arthurian legend, what was the name of the sword in the stone?
Excalibur

Anthony Jerome "Spud" Webb retired from what professional sport in 1997?
Basketball

Who played the lead role in the 1982 American comedy Tootsie?
Dustin Hoffman

What Byzantine city was renamed Istanbul after being captured by the Ottoman Empire?
Constantinople

The Blue Meanies were the enemy of the Beatles in which film.
The Yellow Submarine

What song is most commonly sung to celebrate someone getting a year older?
Happy Birthday

Who composed the songs 'Puttin on the ritz', 'I've got my love to keep me warm' and 'White Christmas?
Irving Berlin

What is the name of the Dutch footballer who transferred from Arsenal to Man Utd in Aug 2012 for £23 million?
Robin Van Persie

How many sides does an icosagon have?
20

Which large animal is the only creature thought to produce its own sun tan lotion from its natural secretions?
Hippopotamus

In a musical about gangsters, who are with the guys in the title?
Dolls

Which Greek author was famous for his fables?
Aesop

Which 1988 western saw Emilio Estevez play 'Billy The Kid' alongside Charlie Sheen and Kiefer Sutherland?
Young Guns

Which Russian punk band were jailed for two years in Aug 2012 for their anti-Putin protest and inciting hooliganism in an orthodox church?
Pussy Riot

Which historical region of Greece includes the capital, Athens?
Attica

Glenridding and Pooley Bridge stand at opposite ends of which lake, the 2nd largest in the Lake District?
Ullswater

Where in London is there a bronze statue of Charlie Chaplin?
Leicester Square

What is the name of the actress who played Hilda Ogden in Coronation Street?
Jean Alexander

Who is reported to have played his fiddle while Rome burned?
Nero

What is the surname of the inventoe of the worlds first motorcycle?
Daimler

Which song from 'Joseph and his technicolour dreamcoat' gave Jason Donovan a No 1 UK hit in 1991?
Any dream will do

Which TV show from the '70s and 80's featured Michael Langdon as Charles Ingalls living on a farm with his wife and 4 daughters?
Little house on the praire

In which country did Posh and Becks marry?
Ireland

Which fantasy kingdom was found at the back of the wardrobe and featured Aslan and a white witch?
Narnia

Into which sea does the Nile flow?
Mediterranean

Three continents lie on the Tropic of Capricorn, South America is one, name any of the other two?
Australia, Africa

In American currency 10 cents make a what?
Dime

Afrikaans was developed from which European language?
Dutch

An Ortanique is a cross between a tangerine and what other fruit?
Orange

What Italian word for 'Scratched Drawing' can be found on walls all over the world?
Graffitti

What musical features 'Some Enchanted Evening' and 'There Is Nothing Like A Dame'?
South Pacific

What was the name of the first manned lunar landing mission in 1969?
Apollo XI

Which boxer was nicknamed 'The Dark Destroyer'?
Nigel Benn

What was the name of Ritchie Valens' girlfriend?
Donna

What is the procedure called where an anaesthetic is injected close to the spinal cord?
Epidural

What poisonous oily liquid occurs naturally in tobacco leaves?
Nicotine

Who had his first UK top 10 hit with 'Wichita Lineman'?
Glen Cambell

Which sign of the Zodiac is represented by the Scales?
Libra

In which country was Rudyard Kipling born?
India

What is the gemstone for September?
Sapphire

What instrument has been nicknamed the 'Mississippi Saxaphone'?
Harmonica

One and a half litres of champagne is known as a what?
Magnum

In alphabetical order name the three particles that make up an atom?
Electron, Neutron, Proton

What is the common name of the' Auora Borealis'?
Northern Lights
