SS Tsiolkovsky, repeat your message.
Well hello, Enterprise. Welcome. I hope you have a lot of pretty boys on board, because i'm willing and waiting. In fact, we're going to have a real blow-out here.
Do it! Yeah, go ahead. Do it!
Captain, what we just heard is impossible.
Report.
I believe that last sound we heard was an emergency hatch being blown.
Are you certain? Yes, of course you are.
Data, Geordi, Tasha.
Cover the ship as planned. Move out.
Indications of what humans would call a wild party?
You were right. Somebody blew the hatch. They were all sucked out into space.
Correction, sir, that's blown out.
Thank you, Data.
A common mistake, sir,
Commander Riker, Lieutenant Yar. Location Engineering. Ten people here, sir, all frozen. No vital signs.
Frozen? How?
Riker to Captain, I have a report for you, sir.
Picard here.
Apparently some of them were apparently blown out the emergency hatches.
But there were eighty people on that ship, Number One.
As I said, all dead.
I can't find anything unusual in any of the tricorder readings they've sent over, Captain.
Give me a theory, Doctor. Anything. Madness? Mass hysteria? Delusion?
Any or all, Captain.
If you were any more perfect, Data, I'd write you up in a Starfleet medical textbook.
I am already listed in several bio-mechanical texts, Doctor.
Normal all across. Except, why are you perspiring, Lieutenant?
I suppose because you have it too hot in here. What else would it be?
That doesn't sound like you, Geordi.
Well, maybe it's not. Maybe she threw her voice. Hey, it was a joke.
: Sickbay to Bridge,
Picard here. Go ahead, Doctor.
: I'm confining Lieutenant La Forge to Sickbay until further notice.
Do we have a problem, Doctor?
Data, I need help in locating some library computer information.
Specifics, sir?
All I have is a vague memory of reading somewhere about someone taking a shower in his or her clothing.
Ah. The body Geordi discovered.
I believe it may have happened before.
To someone, somewhere.
This ought to be easy for someone written up in bio-mechanical texts.
About that, sir. Did the Doctor believe I was boasting?
Probably. This may take some time.
At least several hours. But what I said was a statement of fact. Perhaps she will look it up.
He doesn't have his communicator. It is very important that we find him.
Security team alert, pick up Lieutenant La Forge. He just left Sickbay moments ago. Captain, anything further?
It's a model of the same kind of tractor beam our ship uses with a few ideas of my own added.
So that's your science project, huh? Wes, you're really something.
And since the Captain won't let me on the Bridge, I use this to imagine I'm there.
Take the helm, Mister Crusher. Set a course for thirty seven mark one hundred eighty. Warp six.
It's the Captain's voice.
It's pieced together from words he's used on the intercom. With this, I can pretend he's ordering me to take the Enterprise anywhere. And listen to this,
Chief Engineer, report to the Bridge. Commander Riker, report to the Bridge. Doctor Crusher, report to the Bridge.
What do you think?
I think the Captain's lucky you're on his side.
But he still won't let me on the Bridge. And there's nothing there I don't understand.
I wish I understood myself that well.
Are you okay?
Geordi? Geordi? Lieutenant Yar in the Observation lounge. Send a team here now. Medical's been worried about you.
Help me. Help me to not to give in to the wild things coming into my mind,
Geordi, my job is security,
Tasha, please.
Alright. Alright, helping is more important. Geordi, how can I help you?
Help me to see. Like you do.
But you already see better than I can.
I see more. But more isn't better.
Geordi, please put
I want to see in shallow, dim, beautiful human ways.
We'll talk about it, Geordi. Right now I'm going to take you to Sickbay. All right?
Yeah.
And then we got him down to Sickbay so Doctor Crusher could examine him.
He wasn't violent?
No, sir. He was very upset. He kept talking about wanting normal vision.
Thank you, Lieutenant.
According to our medical readouts, there's still nothing wrong with him. He looks like he's running a temperature but every instrument we have says he's not.
Doctor, every person on that ship over there died. Is there any chance that whatever did it is loose on my ship?
If you mean a disease, sir, I'd say there's no chance of it. We used full decontamination, we examined every team member very carefully,
The entire crew somehow managed to kill themselves, Doctor. If it's not a disease, what else could have made them do that?
The obvious alternatives would be in areas of insanity and severe emotional upset. Troi, do you feel anything unusual in the lieutenant?
Security just told me that he was longing for normal eyesight. That's a sudden yearning for that.
Since his records show no previous mention of that, the fact that it's happened now could be important. But all I sense from him is confusion. If I didn't know better, I'd say he was intoxicated.
Can you provide more information, sir? Seeking an instance of someone showering in his or her clothing is
I know. It's like looking for a needle in a haystack.
Why should anyone wish to expend his time in such a search?
Correction, Data, I should have said proverbial needle in a haystack.
Ah, a human proverb! As in folklore, or an historical allusion, or tribal memories
Historical. That's it. I remember I was reading a history of all the past starships named Enterprise.
Enterprise history. Aberrant behavior. Medical cross reference,
Captain, I believe we've have the answer to what happened over there.
The Constitution class Enterprise, Captain James T. Kirk commanding.
Similar conditions. They were monitoring a planet that was breaking up, not a collapsing star as in this case. But there were the same huge shifts in gravity,
Which somehow resulted in complex strings of water molecules which acquired carbon from the body and acted on the brain like alcohol. Data, download this information to Medical immediately.
Aye, sir. Downloading.
Fascinating! The entire crew going out of control,
Like intoxication, but worse. Judgment almost completely impaired,
This is Crusher. Go ahead Captain.
Tasha? What are you doing?
I need your advice. That's why I came to your quarters.
Of course. Anything I can do
On clothes. You always wear such beautiful clothes off duty. And your hair always looks so nice. I want to change my image. What do you think about this? Or this one?
It's not for you. Tasha, I feel you're very uncertain. Yhat you're fighting something. What is it?
Never mind. I'll find what I need myself. Ship's stores will have it.
Troi to Captain Picard.
She just left my quarters,
Thank you, Counsellor. Number One, it seems our Security Chief has the equivalent of a snootful.
Inquiry, sir. Snootful?
I've been able to widen and strengthen the beam, just like I told you last night.
Do me a favour, Wes. There's something happening on this ship. Just to be safe, I'd like you to stay in our quarters until it's solved.
Sure, Mom, sure. Your wish is my command.
Now, Wes.
Okay, but you could be stunting my emotional growth, you realise that. Why is it so hot in here, anyway?
Picard to Crusher.
Crusher here.
Have you made a test injection yet? We're getting indications that this condition is spreading.
Captain, another forty-one minutes will see the information from the Tsiolkovsky downloaded to us.
Why so slow?
Slow, sir? The Tsiolkovsky has been eight months in accumulating it.
How much danger from that star? Worse case.
Picard to Engineering. Chief Engineer report to the Bridge.
Hi, Jim. Was that the Captain sending you to Medical?
Which would leave no one on duty here. The Chief was just summoned to the Bridge.
Reporting as ordered, sir.
What?
You ordered me to report to the Bridge, sir.
I did no such thing. I want you down in the Engine room just in case we need to move out of here.
Attention all decks, all divisions. Effective immediately, I have handed over control of this vessel to Acting Captain Wesley Crusher.
Acting Captain?
And henceforth, a dessert course shall precede and follow every meal. Including breakfast.
Hurray for the acting Captain!
Incredible. How did you do that?
Hooked my model tractor beam into ship's power. Now its a repulser beam too. Want in?
Number One, MacDougal, get that boy out of Engineering.
Sir, I'm getting very strange reports from all decks.
Such as?
Such as the ship's Training Division ordering all officers to attend a lecture on metaphysics.
Metaphysics?
Confirmed, sir. And there was a rather peculiar limerick being delivered by someone in the Shuttlecraft bay. I am not sure I understand it. There was a young lady from Venus whose body was shaped like
Captain to Security, come in!
Did I say something wrong?
I don't understand their humour either.
Yeah, Captain?
Where is my security chief! Get me Lieutenant Yar.
Keep your britches on.
Captain Picard.
Lieutenant, where are you?
I'm in my quarters, and I'm pretty busy right at the moment, Jean-Luc.
All right, Lieutenant, you just stay right there. Data, please go to Lieutenant Yar and take her down to Sickbay.
Yes, sir.
Lieutenant Yar?
Here, Data. You wanted me?
Captain Picard ordered me to escort you to Sickbay, Lieutenant.
Did he say when?
I am sure he meant now. So, you need time to get into uniform.
But I got out of uniform for you, Data. Do you know how old I was when I was abandoned?
Chronological age? No, I am afraid I am not familiar with
Five. Five years old, but I survived. I learned how to stay alive, how to avoid the rape gangs. I was fifteen before I escaped.
I am sorry. I did not know,
And what I want now is gentleness. And joy. And love. From you, Data. You are fully functional, aren't you?
Of course, but
How fully?
In every way, of course. I am programmed in multiple techniques, a broad variety of pleasuring,
What have you learned, Number One?
Can you short out the power?
Yes, I can. But it's going to take some time.
Bill.
Deanna, what?
So many minds on this ship, all free. Released,
Deanna.
I can feel them all. What they want, what they feel. It's a side of humans I've never felt before.
Come on, I'm getting you to Sickbay.
The medical records we found say this works almost instantly.
Deanna needs your help.
The formula from the old Enterprise didn't work.
What?
This water-carbon complex may induce the same symptoms, but somehow it's different. Maybe it's mutated. But I've got to isolate it in order to analyse it,
We don't have that kind of time.
You brought Deanna in.
She's infected with
Then you touched her! Oh, God. And you touched me. Wait! I've got to quarantine you.
Wes, this is Captain Picard. Do you see me?
Yes sir?
You will now return control of this vessel to the Bridge where it belongs. At once.
I'm sorry, sir. Why don't you just tell me what you want done and I'll do it.
Because ship captains control their own vessels, young man!
But, sir, you don't do it yourself. You give the orders, but someone else does it. What's wrong with giving me the orders to do it?
Captain, getting unusual readings now from the dwarf star.
Stand by a moment on that. Wesley. Wes. Are you aware that you're acting strangely, that a kind of infection was brought over from the Tsiolkovsky which acts like intoxication?
Are you saying that's why I feel so so hot? So strange?
That's a very adult bit of reasoning, Wes,
So you mean I'm drunk! I feel strange, but also good.
Because, because you've lost the capacity for self-judgment. Now, alcohol does this, Wesley. But this contaminant we've brought back from the Tsiolkovsky does it even more so.
What would you do if you got your ship back?
Oh, it's very important I do, Wesley, because I must immediately lock a tractor beam onto the Tsiolkovsky, then tow it out of,
Tractor beams are my specialty, Skipper! I'll contact you when that's done. Wesley out!
Conn, where are you headed?
Sir. The star. It's beginning to collapse.
Lock on. Lock on Tsiolkovsky.
Where's that sonic driver?
Captain, tractor beam. We just locked onto the Tsiolkovsky.
Ah, Data. At least you're functioning.
Fully, Captain.
Data, intoxication is a human condition. Your mind is different, it's not the same as
Doctor,
Captain, can I see you in your Ready Room? It's a private matter. No, actually it's an urgent one.
Now, Doctor
I believe I'm infected myself, Captain.
Do you know what the infection is? Come on, quickly.
Sorry. It is definitely like alcohol intoxication. The same lack of good judgment, For example, right now I find you extremely, extremely, Of course we haven't time for that sort of thing,
What sort of thing?
Oh God, would I love to show you.
Doctor, there must be a cure. Some formula, similar to the old one,
You owe me something. You do realise that, don't you? I'm a woman. I haven't the comfort of a husband. A man.
Bridge to Riker, Urgent.
Riker here.
Thank you, Lieutenant. I'm on my way. You'll have to handle this.
Are you saying you're going to handle that?
What we're seeing, sir, is a huge chunk of the star's surface blown away, heading for us.
Take us
Are you alright, sir?
Worf, you know what to do. Take us er
Take us out of here.
Right.
Controls are still offline, sir.
Override.
I can't help you, Bridge! Someone here has yanked out all the control chips.
It was an adult who did it!
Sir, I estimate fourteen minutes until that mass gets here.
No way, sir. I cannot replace these chips in fourteen minutes. Two hours, three maybe.
Data could assemble them back faster.
What, what's that? What's that, Wesley?
Well, they're just simple isolinear chips, sir, to Data anyway. He can shuffle them like cards.
Nice to see you, Wesley.
Hi, Mister Data.
No time for courtesy. Get the damned control chips back in place, in the correct order. Now!
It's like a game. How fast can you do it?
Ah, a game!
I think I can switch this to main viewer, sir,
Data, we've got eight or nine minutes at most. Can you finish by then?
No, this will take slightly more time than we have, sir.
Beverly.
Yes, Jean-Luc?
You will address me as Captain.
Captain? Well then, my dear Captain, you will address me as Chief Medical Officer or Doctor.
I will? That's true. I started off calling you Beverly, and of course, naturally, you. I'm still not thinking straight.
Likewise. Where the hell was I headed?
If that's something you were going to test,
See how I reversed the fields on this, Commander? I made it into a repulser beam.
If we just had one minute more, sir.
If this were a hundred times more powerful than it is. Why not try it with the real thing? Why not reverse fields on this, Ma'am? If we just need an extra minute,
It would take weeks of laying out new circuits.
I made this a broader based remedy. I hope. But it's still close to the formula from the old Enterprise records.
Decades ago, light years away,
But almost exactly the same conditions as here.
Wow! What was in that, Doctor? My head's beginning to clear,
Come here. Here, take this to Engineering. I'll make up more hypos for the others.
We're not going to make it, Captain. If we had just a minute or so.
Then reversing power leads, back through the force activator. Repulser beam hard against Tsiolkovsky. Don't you see? It's giving us a push off. The extra time we need.
We're pushing away.
Captain , something seemed to move us aside at the last minute.
Do we owe our thanks to Commander Data, sir?
Yes, and Wesley may have given us a few seconds, too.
Did he say Wesley? The boy?
It's only fair to mention Wesley in a log entry, sir.
Congratulations, sir.
To many people.
Data. I'm only going to tell you this just once. It never happened.
I put it to you all. I think we shall end up with a fine crew, if we avoid temptation. So, Number One, let's go to our next job.
Aye, sir. Helm, prepare for warp three. Heading two hundred and ninety four mark thirty seven.
Warp three, heading two hundred and ninety four mark thirty seven, sir.
