Sir Humphrey:     With Trident we could obliterate the whole of Eastern Europe.
Jim Hacker:       I don't want to obliterate the whole of Eastern Europe.
Sir Humphrey:     It's a deterrent.
Jim Hacker:       It's a bluff. I probably wouldn't use it.
Sir Humphrey:     Yes, but they don't know that you probably wouldn't.
Jim Hacker:       They probably do.
Sir Humphrey:     Yes, they probably know that you probably wouldn't. But they can't certainly know.
Jim Hacker:       They probably certainly know that I probably wouldn't.
Sir Humphrey:     Yes, but even though they probably certainly know that you probably wouldn't, they don't certainly know that, although you probably wouldn't, there is no probability that you certainly would.

Jim Hacker:       Nice to be able to reward one's old allies. Was Ron Jones pleased with his peerage?
Bernard Woolley:  Oh yes, Prime Minister. He said his members would be delighted.
Jim Hacker:       His members?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes, the members of his union. The National Federation...
Jim Hacker:       I didn't mean him. I meant our backbencher. I meant to give a peerage to Ron Jones, not Ron Jones. The hell!!
Bernard Woolley:  If it is any consolation, Prime Minister, I gather he was awfully pleased.
Jim Hacker:       What are we going to do about Ron Jones's peerage. Give him one too?
Sir Humphrey:     With respect, Prime Minister, we can't send two Lord Ron Jones to the Upper House. It will look like a job lot.
Jim Hacker:       We got to give him something, I promised.
Sir Humphrey:     Well, what is he interested in? Does he watch television?
Jim Hacker:       He hasn't even got a set.
Sir Humphrey:     Fine, make him Governor of the BBC.

Sir Humphrey:     Don't you believe that Great Britain should have the best?
Jim Hacker:       Yes, of course.
Sir Humphrey:     Very well, if you walked into a nuclear missile showroom you would buy Trident - it's lovely, it's elegant, it's beautiful. It is quite simply the best. And Britain should have the best. In the world of the nuclear missile it is the Saville Row suit, the Rolls Royce Corniche, the Château Lafitte 1945. It is the nuclear missile Harrods would sell you. What more can I say?
Jim Hacker:       Only that it costs £15 billion and we don't need it.
Sir Humphrey:     Well, you can say that about anything at Harrods.

Jim Hacker:       Tell me, General, where is the Hot Line?
General Howard:   Which one?
Jim Hacker:       The one to Russia.
Bernard Woolley:  The Red Hot Line, Sir.
General Howard:   That's in Downing Street.
Jim Hacker:       So in an emergency, I can get straight through to the Soviet President?
General Howard:   Theoretically, yes.
Jim Hacker:       Theoretically?
General Howard:   That's what we tell journalists. In fact, we did once get through to the Kremlin, but only to a switchboard operator.
Jim Hacker:       Couldn't the operator put you through?
General Howard:   We never found out. He didn't seem to speak much English.

Bernard Woolley:  That is why that torpedo landed on Sandwich Golf Course.
Jim Hacker:       Sandwich Golf Course? I didn't read that in the paper.
Bernard Woolley:  No, of course not: there was a cover-up. The members just found a new bunker on the 7th fairway the next day.

Sir Humphrey:     You know what happens: nice young lady comes up to you. Obviously you want to create a good impression, you don't want to look a fool, do you? So she starts asking you some questions: Mr. Woolley, are you worried about the number of young people without jobs?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes
Sir Humphrey:     Are you worried about the rise in crime among teenagers?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes
Sir Humphrey:     Do you think there is a lack of discipline in our Comprehensive schools?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes
Sir Humphrey:     Do you think young people welcome some authority and leadership in their lives?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes
Sir Humphrey:     Do you think they respond to a challenge?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes
Sir Humphrey:     Would you be in favour of reintroducing National Service?
Bernard Woolley:  Oh...well, I suppose I might be.
Sir Humphrey:     Yes or no?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes
Sir Humphrey:     Of course you would, Bernard. After all you told you can't say no to that. So they don't mention the first five questions and they publish the last one.
Bernard Woolley:  Is that really what they do?
Sir Humphrey:     Well, not the reputable ones no, but there aren't many of those. So alternatively the young lady can get the opposite result.
Bernard Woolley:  How?
Sir Humphrey:     Mr. Woolley, are you worried about the danger of war?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes
Sir Humphrey:     Are you worried about the growth of armaments?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes
Sir Humphrey:     Do you think there is a danger in giving young people guns and teaching them how to kill?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes
Sir Humphrey:     Do you think it is wrong to force people to take up arms against their will?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes
Sir Humphrey:     Would you oppose the reintroduction of National Service?
Bernard Woolley:  Yes
Sir Humphrey:     There you are, you see Bernard. The perfect balanced sample.

Godfrey:          Will you be wearing those glasses?
Jim Hacker:       Oh, what do you think?
Godfrey:          Well, it's up to you, obviously. With them on you look authoritative and commanding. With them off you look honest and open. Which do you want?
Jim Hacker:       Well, I want to look authoritative and honest.
Godfrey:          It's one or the other, really.
Jim Hacker:       What about starting with them off and then putting them on while I am talking?
Godfrey:          That just looks indecisive.
Jim Hacker:       Oh, I see.
Bernard Woolley:  What about a monocle?

Sir Humphrey:     Bernard, what is the purpose of our defence policy?
Bernard Woolley:  To defend Britain.
Sir Humphrey:     No, Bernard. It is to make people believe Britain is defended.
Bernard Woolley:  The Russians?
Sir Humphrey:     Not the Russians, the British! The Russians know it is not.

Jim Hacker:       Humphrey, who is it who has the last word about the government of Britain? The British Cabinet or the American President?
Sir Humphrey:     You know that is a fascinating question. We often discuss it.
Jim Hacker:       And what conclusion have you arrived at?
Sir Humphrey:     Well, I must admit to be a bit of a heretic. I think it is the British Cabinet. But I know I am in the minority.

Jim Hacker:       Humphrey, we are talking about 100,000 deaths a year.
Sir Humphrey:     Yes, but cigarette taxes pay for a third of the cost of the National Health Service. We are saving many more lives than we otherwise could because of those smokers who voluntary lay down their lives for their friends. Smokers are national benefactors.

Sir Humphrey:     Taxation isn't about what you need.
Jim Hacker:       Oh, what is it about?
Sir Humphrey:     Prime Minister, the Treasury doesn't work out what they need to spend and then think how to raise the money.
Jim Hacker:       What does it do?
Sir Humphrey:     They pitch for as much as they think they can get away with and then think what to spend it on.

Jim Hacker:       These figures are just guesses.
Sir Humphrey:     No, they are government statics..... they're facts.

Sir Humphrey:     Prime Minister, I must protest in the strongest possible terms my profound opposition to a newly instituted practice which imposes severe and intolerable restrictions upon the ingress and egress of senior members of the hierarchy and which will, in all probability, should the current deplorable innovation be perpetuated, precipitate a constriction of the channels of communication, and culminate in a condition of organisational atrophy and administrative paralysis which will render effectively impossible the coherent and co-ordinated discharge of the functions of government within Her Majesty's United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Jim Hacker:       You mean you've lost your key?

Jim Hacker:       Bernard, I want you to put Dorothy back into her old office.
Bernard Woolley:  You mean, carry her there?

Jim Hacker:       People can wait in the lobby or in the state room.
Sir Humphrey:     Some people. But some people must wait where other people cannot see the people who are waiting. And people who arrive before other people, must wait where they cannot see other people who arrive after them being admitted before them. And people who come in from outside must wait where they cannot see the people from inside coming in to tell you what the people from outside are going to see you about. And people who arrive when you are with people that are not suppose to know you have seen, must wait somewhere until the people you are not suppose to have seen, have seen you.
Jim Hacker:       Sounds like an entire Whitehall farce going on.

Sir Frank Gordon: Ah, when I say not overstretched, I was of course talking in a sense of total cumulative loading taken globally, rather than in respect of certain individual and essentially anomalous responsibilities that, logically speaking, are not consonant or harmonious with the broad spectrum of intermeshing and inseparable function, and could indeed be said to place an excessive and supererogative burden on the office, where considered in relation to the comparatively exiguous advantages of their overall centralisation.
Jim Hacker:       You could do part of Humphrey's job!

Jim Hacker:       Why did you allow Sir Humphrey to come in here when I explicitly told you not to?
Bernard Woolley:  Well, I couldn't stop him.
Jim Hacker:       Why not?
Bernard Woolley:  He's bigger than me.


